# Week 1 - Dec 3, 2017 to Dec 9, 2017

## Recipe Log
* [chickpea farro salad](../../../1-recipes/salads/mason_jar_salads/chickpea_farro_salad.md)
* spiced yogurt sauce
* chili-cranberry dipping sauce
* savory lentil pastry (Dal Kachori)


## Holiday Diets are Hard
Current Weight: 187, down 3 pounds

My diet is going ok, I dropped a few pounds from last week, mostly water weight. Haven't really had much fat loss. I expect little to no change next weigh in due to the number of Holiday related events. My work place had a pot luck and a Christmas party. Being vegan at least keeps me from most of the unhealthy foods, but most alcohol is vegan and hummus is a weakness of mine. My calorie deficit for the rest of the week will hopefully prevent a gain, but the alcohol and salt may cause water retention. We shall see.

## Holiday Potluck
Not many people showed up to "my" potluck, mine in that I half heartedly organized it. It was still fun though and gave me an excuse to make some food I wouldn't usually make for myself. I made baked Dal Kachori, a savory lentil pastry. They are sort of like samosas but they have a red lentil filling and the shape is different. They are a sort of small, flat disk. They crisped up nicely in the oven and had a strong spiced flavor with heat that built up as you ate them. They were very good, though I went heavy handed on the salt. I usually double salt called for in recipes because they never include enough and salt is one of the things that our brains say "yes please more of that". I think since the recipe contained so many other spices, especially chaat masala which contains Indian black salt, I didn't need to add extra salt. Luckily I made a couple dipping sauces to go along with it, a cranberry chili sauce and a spiced yogurt sauce. The yogurt sauce especially was good for tempering the salty pastry. I doubled the lentil part of the recipe but it still wasn't enough, I ended up throwing away two or three pastry shells. I would triple it next time and still maybe want more. The ratio of filling to dough wasn't ideal. I would like a much "meatier" filling.

## Sourdough Starter Success
I finally seem to having some success with my sourdough starter. After tossing George and beginning with Neville I saw the predictable "false rise" on day 3 that comes from gassy non-yeast bacteria followed by many days of stagnation and finally, after 3 failed starters, a true rise caused by active yeast. About damn time. I should be able to refrigerate my starter and move to a weekly feeding schedule now but I am going to continue to strengthen it on the counter for maybe a week. I am going to put together a bread recipe and finally put my starter to use this weekend.
