# Week 2 - Dec 10, 2017 to Dec 16, 2017

## Recipe Log
* [roasted sweet potato and black bean salad](../../../1-recipes/salads/mason_jar_salads/roasted_sweet_potato_and_balck_bean.md)
* [key lime pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pies/key_lime_pie.md)
* [pumpkin pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pies/pumpkin_pie.md)
* Butternut Coconut Red Lentil Curry (Masoor Aur Kaddu Ki Dal)

## Holidays Continue to Pose a Challenge
Current Weight: 187
Total Weight Loss: 4 pounds
Weekly Weight Loss: 1 pound

There was yet another pot luck as well as the opening of Star Wars Episode 8 this week. I made some pies for the pot luck and pop corn at the movies. I managed to lose a pound last week but I will be surprised if I lose any this week. I need to be strict this coming week in prep for going home the following week for Christmas.


## Bread News
I made my first loaf of sourdough and...it was less than impressive. It was ok, but I am used to making some really good bread with instant dry yeast. I was planning on making some for the party I went to but ended up going with classic white bread instead as it is a known entity. Mostly, my starter needs more time to strengthen. The flavors were not very strong. I am also still perfecting my sourdough techniques and recipe but I think most of it came down to the yeast not being quite ready. Less active yeast means less rise and less complex flavors. I am going to keep feeding it daily until I go home for the holidays at which point I will begin weekly feedings.

## Pies
I learned to make a key lime pie and a graham cracker crust. The key lime turned out very well. I went through a couple recipes before I found one that didn't have too many weird ingredients. Key Limes are pain to work with though. So tiny. I also refined my pumpkin pie recipe a bit and it turned out quite nice. I added a blind bake step to make the crust a little nicer and found some new pumpkin pie spice ratios that weren't as spicey.
