# Week 1 - Feb 04, 2018 to Feb 10, 2018

## Recipe Log
* almost All-American seitan pot pie - Veganomicon
* vegetables in vindaloo sauce
* spinach linguine with basil-cilantro pesto and artichokes - Veganomicon
* [buffalo cauliflower wings](../../../1-recipes/appetizers/cauliflower_wings.md)

## Hiatus
So I havent kept up with these well after the new year. Part of it is just having less time after going back to work, but i also have a habit of not sticking with things. Luckily I havent broken the habit of cooking, just documenting what I cook. Another reason is that I have been back to cooking old favorites or things from my cookbook, so I find myself looking up new recipes I need to transcode. Anyway, I'm back at it for now. We will see how long it lasts.

## Craving for Junk Food
I have been craving some junk food lately. Wings and pizza specifically. My yeast is apparently dead as my last two loaves of bread have been shit, so [wings it is](../../../1-recipes/appetizers/cauliflower_wings.md). My previous attempts at cauliflower wings have been not so great. I have only tried once or twice and I don't think I was even vegan at the time but rather simply on a diet. If I remember correctly the batter was too thick and they were not very crisp. So this time I thinned the batter out some and added breadcrumbs after battering. They turned out pretty good. Much crispier than previous attempts. They werent salty or fatty enough to really quench my junk food craving but it was more than passable. I also need to work on my buffalo sauce but thats its own thing. I also want to try to deep fry some next time. 0% healthy, but delicious.
