# Week 2 - Nov 5, 2017 to Nov 11, 2017

## Recipe Log
* [sourdough bread starter](../../../1-recipes/bread/sourdough_starter.md)
* Yellow Split Peas with Coconut, Sesame, and Tamarind (Maharashtrian Amti)
* Vegetables in Luxurious Royal Sauce (Navratan Korma)
* South Indian Split Pea Stew with Veggies (Sambhar)
* Cumin Seed and Cardamom Infused Basmati Rice
* [pecan pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pecan_pie.md)

## Sourdough Starter
I spent a lot of time last week researching sourdough, or naturally leavened, bread. I've already been making bread for the last 6 months using Ken Forkish's method in [Flour, Water, Salt, Yeast](../../../2-cookbooks/flour_water_salt_yeast_ken_forkish.md) to great effect. It makes delicious bread that everyone always wants the recipe for...until they see the recipe. That recipe uses industrial, dry active yeast. I decided to make my own [sourdough bread starter](../../../1-recipes/bread/sourdough_starter.md) and will look up some new bread making techniques to use this starter. I could probably adapt some of Ken's techniques to work with this starter, his recipes using a poolish would probably translate nicely, but I want to try some that specifically call for sourdough starter to see what I can learn. I've already noticed a couple different techniques called out in these recipes such as the slap and fold technique for gluten development rather than applying folds during the first hour of fermentation in the container the dough is fermenting in.

I have a more detailed journal of the sourdough starter in the recipe linked to above. I've had to play around with the amount of flour and water I use on the fly which makes it seem a little hectic, but overall it seems to be going well. I bought a giant mason jar to make it in originally that I no longer need after scaling down the recipe. Need to figure out what to do with it. Maybe try a small batch of kombucha, though it might not be big enough for that.


## Indian Food
I've been cooking almost entirely Indian for for the past month or so working my way through Richa Hingle's cookbook [Vegan Richa's Indian Kitchen](../../../2-cookbooks/vegan_richas_indian_kitchen_richa_hingle.md). I've cooked about 25 different dishes at this point. Most of them are fantastically flavorful, but they can feel very similar. Many of the recipes call for the same basic ingredients. I'm actually pretty impressed the range of flavors and dishes you can get out of tomatoes + vegetables/tofu/lentils/beans + 12 different spices. Plus, after stocking up on spices, its extremely cheap. Ill spend less than $5 on a meal when I don't need a new spice. I have a global market place (which is like 80% Indian stuff) that sells bulk spices for surprisingly cheap. I can get half pound of cinnamon sticks for the same price as a handful from Harris Teeter.

This week I made:
* Yellow Split Peas with Coconut, Sesame, and Tamarind (Maharashtrian Amti) - not super impressed with this recipe. Its ok. It is much more soupy than I expected and not that filling. The flavor is interesting though, different than many of the recipes. Lighter and less intense. I'm not sure if I like split peas very much. I may have undercooked them. They don't seem to blend into the final product as much as I'm used to with lentils.
* Vegetables in Luxurious Royal Sauce (Navratan Korma) - this shit was awesome. Very flavorful. Designed around just throwing any vegetables you have on hand or are on sale. Blanched vegetables hold their own and don't get lost in the sauce. Used more dishes than I'd like, but worth it.
* South Indian Split Pea Stew with Veggies (Sambhar) - This one was better than the Maharashtrian Amti I made earlier in the week. Its basically Indian Style vegetable stew. Not too hard to make, but took me a little longer because I had to make the Sambhar powder before I could make the tempering. Turned out very spicy, probably added one too many dried red peppers. Still tasty though. Also very easy to scale up to make multiple meals, ended up with about 7 servings worth since the only eggplants they sell around here are gigantic. Tasted even better reheated and took the edge off of the spiciness, still pretty spicy though.

I've also been adding cumin seeds and whole cardamom pods to my rice and it makes it really tasty. You have to be careful not to bite into a cardamom pod though, it doesn't taste bad but the flavor is quite intense. I tried removing the cardamom pods before packing up the rice to reheat later, but its not as good reheated. The second cook with the cardamom pods in the microwave give it a nice flavor. People at work might not like it though, not sure.


## Pie Crust
In preparation for Thanksgiving, this week's research included how to make a [pie crust](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pie_crust.md) from scratch. I've always hated making pastry dough when a cookbook calls for it, like to go on a pot pie or something. The dough always comes our bland and boring. Most dough recipes included as part of a recipe are very basic and discuss none of the nuance of what makes for a good and bad dough. If you make a recipe book and any of the recipes call for some kind of dough, you should have a "dough recipe" you can refer to in your book where you have a recipe just for the dough and some exposition on how to make it well. "Mix dry ingredients and butter with two knives" doesn't cut it.

My [first experiments](../../../3-projects/pie_crust_quest.md) didn't turn out so great. I'm going to try again tomorrow morning before making a [pecan pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pecan_pie.md)...unless I mess it up again.
