# Week 3 - Nov 12, 2017 to Nov 18, 2017

## Recipe Log
* [Pecan pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pecan_pie.md)
* Red Lentil Soup (Masoor Dal Tadka)

## Pie Quest 2017
I made 3 different pie crusts over the weekend. one turned out completely over cooked, one might even say burnt, the other was way over cooked to be made into a pie but not burnt (it because snack crackers) and the third turned out pretty good and became my first ever [pecan pie](../../../1-recipes/sweets/pecan_pie.md). Actually, now that I think about it I don't think I've ever had pecan pie before. I didn't like pecans as a kid and would just eat pumpkin instead. So I have no reference point for what it should taste like. It's mostly sugar and butter though, so not much to it. Turned out pretty fantastic. Kind of has a caramel flavor. Pecans add a nice brunch. The filling is a little runny, not bad but the topping sort of slowly slides off the top of the pie crust. Think I just ate it before it cooled, but I may add some extra cornstarch or tofu next time.

I reserved a few slices to test how the baked pie lasts on the counter vs in the fridge vs in the freezer. More to come on that.

## The Luna is Dead, Long Live The Luna
My first starter was a bit of a disaster. Saturday morning I pronounced her dead. The starter was soupy like I expected, but the hooch remained on top, it never grew and it was smelling worse and worse. I wrote up a post mortem in the [project journal](../../../3-projects/sourdough_starter_experiments.md). I also made two new starters, both identical except that one uses pineapple juice to lower the acidity from the outset of the fermentation process that will prevent the smelly bacteria from activating and pave the way for the yeast to activate more quickly. Hopefully I will have at least 1 active starter to make bread with this weekend. Will have to lookup some bread recipes.

## I Cant Quit You
So I lied. I'm just gonna keep eating Indian food. I mean its just so good. And I have like 6 pounds of assorted spices. I am storing bulk spices under my bed because I have no storage space in my kitchen for them. Also, little tip, don't store spices in sealed container with other dry goods. Especially grains. Oatmeal, for example. It will taste like a dozen different Indian spices no amount of brown sugar will entirely erase.  

* Red Lentil Soup (Masoor Dal Tadka) - fantastic. The base recipe just uses lentils, water, onion, garlic, ginger and your assorted handful of spices. At the bottom it suggested adding tomatoes and/or coconut milk. Which is a shame, because they that should just be the main recipe. The coconut milk made it nice and creamy. Tomatoes helped give it some color, though the turmeric tends to overpower any other colors. 
