# Week 4 - Nov 19, 2017 to Nov 25, 2017

## Recipe Log
* Butternut Coconut Red Lentil Curry (Masoor Aur Kaddu Ki Dal)
* Potato Veggie Ball in Garlic Fenugreek Sauce (Lasooni Methi Kofte)
* naan
* [white cake](../../../1-recipes/sweets/basic_white_cake.md) with [chocolate buttercream frosting](../../../1-recipes/sweets/chocolate_buttercream_frosting.md)
* Saturday Morning White Bread (Ken Forkish's Recipe)
* Porcini-Wild Rice Soup


## Happy Birthday to Me
I've never made a birthday cake and feel like it would be a good thing to add to my cooking bat belt, so I am going to make myself a birthday cake from scratch. I didn't do much recipe combining because all the recipes were practically the same. Birthday cakes are pretty simple compared to pies. I didn't properly prepare my pan so it kinda stuck and fell apart trying to get it out. I glued it together with the chocolate frosting. End result was pretty ugly but damn good. I don't feel self conscious baking myself a birthday cake, but I did not light candles or sing happy birthday to myself though. That would have crossed the line into pitiful territory. Learned two new recipes and now I'm eating delicious, albeit ugly, cake.

## I mean I have all these spices, right?
I continue to be impressed with the complexity of flavors Indian food can achieve with so few core ingredients. The average dish has between maybe 6 to 12 different spices, which seems like a lot, but once you have them on hand you can combine them in different ways to create a variety of different dishes. I made a red lentil curry on Monday and I literally bought two things from the store: butternut squash and coconut milk. I already had all the other spices and lentils on hand. Cheap and easy. And many can be made in a single pot.

* Butternut Coconut Red Lentil Curry (Masoor Aur Kaddu Ki Dal) - this was great. kind of similar to the red lentil soup (Masoor Dal Tadk) I made last week. The coconut and butternut squash give the curry a bit of a sweetness but there is a nice balance of heat from the spices. The shredded coconut I have is not the best quality and I feel it gets in the way a bit in recipes. I've had on hand for a couple weeks now, but I don't think thats the problem. It's just a bit chewy and noticeable. I wonder if better coconut would blend a little better.
* Veggie Potato Cutlets (Vegetable Tikki) - Kind of like a baked/fried mashed potato ball. I shaped them into balls for the garlic sauce. Pretty good. They can be fried or baked. Pretty easy to make a large batch of. I frozen about 2/3 of them. Will Probably have to thaw over night in fridge before use. They are potato heavy, I think I will try to add a larger variety of vegetables.
* Garlic Fenugreek Sauce (Lasooni Methi Kofte) - very tasty sauce. Used basically an entire head of garlic. Makes for smelly breath, among other things. Very thick, very rich, great for dipping
* Naan - fun to make. Took about 2 hours, mostly waiting for things to rise. The dough was quite tough while working with it but the naan was somewhat tender. It was denser than restaurant naan, I think I should have rolled them thinner, didn't get the nice air pockets or crisp thin parts.
