# Week 5 - Nov 26, 2017 to Dec 2, 2017

## Recipe Log
* sweet and sour split pea soup (gujarati surati dal)
* [mason jar taco salad](../../../1-recipes/salads/mason_jar_salads/taco_salad.md)
* South Indian Chickpea Eggplant Stew

## Diet
I've gained about 10 pounds in the past 6 months or so, approaching 190 pounds form my low of about 180. I've gotten a little slack with snacking and eating sugary things. I am going to start counting my calories again to drop back to my goal weight of 175. Should take about two months. So I'll be eating more salads and vegetables. This will be a good chance to document some of the mason jar salads I used to eat a lot of. I will probably still stick with Indian for dessert as a lot of it is pretty healthy anyway. Unfortunately this will probably mean fewer new recipes each week as I wont have the caloric bandwidth to make extra treats and the meals I make will naturally stretch a little farther.

## More Sourdough Failures
After getting almost no help from /r/Breadit on troubleshooting George I decided to start over with Neville. My best guess is some bad bacteria took over preventing any yeast from really growing. I am trying the same starter recipe, with water instead of pineapple juice, feeding once a day and adding a stir in the evening to give it oxygen. I was disappointed with the few pieces of advice I got from /r/Breadit it was all anecdotal and the people commenting didn't seem to understand why they were giving the advice they were giving. Just parroting simple things back at me and ignoring me when I explained the science or logic behind something I did. The best advice was that I don't need to feed it twice a day. I agree with that but none tried to explain why you only need to feed it once a day. I can tell you: most starters aren't active enough to need twice daily feeding, especially when just trying to get to initial yeast activation, and discarding too much or too often doesn't allow the pH to drop to a level where yeast can thrive. 
